# ezDeFi Ecosystem

## Armin and his rug business

Armin owns an exotic rug store in Turkey and plans to export his products to Europe, Asia, and America. After setting up the store online through WordPress, Armin incorporated a credit card payment gateway into his store and launched the store swiftly afterward. The store had been running for 3 months, and Armin found out about Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies on the news. Being worried about cryptocurrency's practicality, Armin decided to do research about this new type of payment.

The steady growth of cryptocurrency retailers, wallet users, and revenue are shown on Coindesk, VisualCapitalist, and small business gave Armin more confidence in accepting crypto payment to his store.

According to Statista, blockchain wallet users worldwide are exceeding 40 million at the end of 2019.

In one of the reports on The Paypers, 6% of the customers cancel their checkout because the online retailer is lacking their preferred payment method.

Maybe 6% is not many customers for each merchant, however, in the long run, why waste the opportunity to bring your goods to a bigger audience with minimal fees?

Then Armin found the ezDeFi Gateway and its advantages. It’s faster, cheaper, and more secure than transferring with an existing digital credit system.

Plus, the installation of the ezDeFi Gateway is super easy. Now, Armin can attract a new customer base for integrating ezDeFi Gateway into his rug business.

## Blockchain and Decentralized finance

Blockchain has been seen as ‘new core technology to change the world’ after the invention of the Internet. Governments have evaluated blockchain as one of the leading technologies of the fourth industrial revolution. Blockchain enables P2P trade to execute transactions without a centralized third party, offers a decentralized alternative for monitoring and finalizing payments in real-time. Optimizing transparency, reliability and replicability can be retained through blockchain technology in various industries such as finance, manufacture & distribution, and public service. It is expected that creating new value is available by brokerage commission reduction as well. 

The most highly utilized industry among various business fields is finance, that is, the transfer and payment service market. While overseas remittance using SWIFT usually takes 2 to 3 days currently, if you use blockchain-based cryptocurrency, it only takes a few minutes to complete the transfer. Furthermore, the time required for cryptocurrency transactions gradually reduces with technology development. 

As above, the reduction of remittance time and payment fees with cryptocurrency is available. However, there are some problems to resolve for introducing cryptocurrency actively. It can be difficult for users to accept cryptocurrency due to price fluctuation and complicated payment methods even if cryptocurrency is introduced to the real economy. To prove blockchain’s value and to introduce & utilize cryptocurrency-based finance service actively, we need a new service model that is different from the legacy model. 

We are working on ezDeFi project, the Global Payment Ecosystem based on Blockchain and Convenient Payment which enables us to use convenient, unstoppable, non-reversible, and rapid payment service anytime and anywhere with all digital assets including cryptocurrency. ezDeFi is an open payment system for every main agent of economic systems such as government organization, finance company, medium-sized company, retail shop, distribution company, and fin-tech company. We also want to provide the services for individuals:

*	those who do not have access to the banking system.

*	those who need low-cost international financial services.
*	the small business owners who want to accept cryptocurrency payment.
*	those who need a smart contract that executes the terms inside automatically without any third-party.
*	the innovators who need fast and low-cost transactions for their decentralized applications (dApps).

Our network will be entirely open-source. Developers, freelancers, and businesses could advance the network by building new and pragmatic dApps, that has the necessity for instant transaction confirmation with minimal fees.

