# Solutions

ezDefi understands the importance of major blockchain networks, so our solutions only seek to provide users with simplicity and security while interacting with blockchain technology.

| Appendix |  |
| ------------   | :-----------: |
| ZD  | ezDeFi Native Token |
| ZUSD  |The ultimate privacy dollar, the combination between decentralization, privacy and stabilization    |
| r2POS | A Relay-friendly Proof of Stake |
| VDF |  Verifiable Delay Function |
|RNG|	Random Number Generator|
|VM|	Virtual Machine|

## Payment and eCommerce Applications

For the past two decades, Internet marketplaces and e-commerce stores have changed the way that buyers and sellers connect, creating new opportunities for the exchange of goods and services. However, these marketplaces have always been governed by centralized companies that maintain their individual monopolies on data, transaction and other service fees, and ultimately, user choice of products. With blockchain and other distributed technologies beginning to hit the mainstream, the world is poised for a new wave of decentralized commerce. ezDeFi is bringing change and innovation to the global peer-to-peer economy. We're excited by the opportunity to provide a solution for lower fees, increase innovation, free customer and transaction data, and decrease censorship and unnecessary regulation. 

We are building a platform that invites other interested parties including developers and entrepreneurs to build this technology and community with us, altogether working to create the peer-to-peer economy of tomorrow. 

Payment token

ZD token is the main payment token for the ezDeFi ecosystem. Beside ZD token, the users of our ecosystem are able to transact using Bitcoin, Ethereum, other cryptocurrencies (BNB, TRX, POC, KNC), and stablecoins (e.g. USDT, USDC, DAI). Payment tokens of different chains will be listed and swap freely thanks for our cross-chain technology. The unbiased integration of different payment cryptocurrencies and stablecoins is expected to increase the liquidity of the ecosystem and the adoption of crypto in the daily life. 

Stores and partner businesses
Our strategies focus on expanding partnership and making ezDeFi application the primary apps for stores, business, and individuals payment. Being our payment and loyalty points partner, businesses will be able to:
-	receive the main cryptocurrencies and stablecoins without any transaction costs and with liquidity available within 24 hours.
-	belong to a business network with decentralized information and available worldwide with location information, contacts, type of business, price target, and much more useful information.
-	have the opportunity to divulge their products and services, and conduct online sales, using either stablecoins or cryptocurrencies.
-	have a competitive advantage and access to a market niche constituted by innovative customers and early adopters who tend to desire anonymity and are willing to pay for it.

dApp developers
In order to encourage pioneering developers, we warrant 90% of all transaction fees generated by dApps will be returned to the dApp developers. ezDeFi will take the share of 10% to expand partnership and bring liquidity and customers to the platform, to support the popularity of the dApps.

Recurring payment through the smart contract
Recurring Payments also called Auto Pay can be defined as mechanisms where a business concern or say a bank is authorized by the customer to automatically collect a certain amount during a particular period. For example, banks are authorized to automatically deduct credit card charges, at the beginning of every month. This helps in avoiding the issues of late fees or fine. ezDeFi enables decentralized recurring payments with a technology built on our own blockchain. With our blockchain technology, it is possible to authorize businesses to automatically deduct an approved amount from the account in a prescribed period, eliminating the need for constant manual payment, and high fee transaction of Ethereum blockchain.

[//]: # (ảnh 1, recurring payments based on time with a variable amount)

[//]: # (ảnh 2, recurring payments based on time)

Escrow payment through the smart contract

ezDeFi ecosystem enhances the buying/selling process with decentralized escrow for secure payments, third-party dispute resolution, and near-zero transaction costs. The ezDeFi can be integrated into new or existing marketplaces and can also be used in marketplaces that do not directly handle payments yet. The software is designed specifically for P2P marketplace transactions where trust between the buyer and seller might be limited.

Our third-party dispute resolution is decided by the on-chain governance mechanism. The result is lower fees and fairer than any other escrow systems. 

[//]: # (ẢNH GIẢI THÍCH CƠ CHẾ ESCROW CỦA ezDeFi)

Infrastructure for eCommerce tokens & loyalty points

Our blockchain ecosystem will also allow instantaneous and secure creation, redemption, and exchange of loyalty reward points across all of programs, vendors, and industries through a trustless environment using our ZD token in lieu of trusted third parties and administrators. Through a rigorous online protocol, well-programmed building blocks, and smart contracts, blockchain has the capability to operate without intermediaries. The key elements of such a blockchain solution are a huge partnership network of biggest vendor and merchants, reward applications, and ZD token

 
(Bỏ loyalty token => thay thế bằng ZD token. Ý muốn nói, mọi loyalty point đều có thể được convert thành ZD trước khi có thể convert thành tiền mặt hoặc bất kỳ dạng thức cryptocurrencies nào. Loyalty points sẽ trở thành …tiền theo cách tiếp cận như vậy)

For example, users that earn loyalty points of the programs, vendors, and industries through ezDeFi Rewards will be able to instantly convert their loyalty points to ZD tokens and other forms of cryptocurrencies. 

