# ezDeFi Technical Paper

## Introduction

In addition to NTY coin-base, DCCS has the secondary token named NTF. NTF is used for authorizing an account to become the maintainer/sealer of the confirmation system described detail in section 2, as well as to calculate reward for block sealer. NTF token has total supply of 10,000,000 and will be distributed for the first 100, 000, 000, 000 NTY holders that joined in “Smart Staking” program described detail in the white paper of Nexty [2017]. In the other words, NTF will be rewarded to the pioneers having a clear vision and a strong believe in Nexty Platform in the future. That’s the reason why we call the new consensus protocol as “Proof of Foundation”. The power of Nexty Platform, however, is not belong to NTF holders because they could be voted down by Nexty community if community found that NTF holders did any bad behavior of cheating, malicious or hand-shaking to make the network become centralize chain as well as using out-ofdate source code. As a result, NTF holders have the only role as block sealer for Nexty blockchain and governed by NTY community via decentralize voting system.

## How to Authorize an account to be a block sealer

The system will set up a configuration parameter to define the minimum value, 50000 NTF, that an account need to deposit into Nexty governance smart contract to become a block sealer. Nexty will build and develop a governance smart contract, which allow NTF token holder, having enough token, to grant another account called “executing-account” to become the block sealer by setting“authorizedsealer” state in the smart contract with the value equal to address of NTF holder.
If an address already has an “authorizedsealer” value, it can not receive authorization from another NTF holder until the NTF holder has made the withdrawal it from “authorized-sealer”. The “authorizedsealer list will be determined at the check point block of each epoch by reading canonical state from the smart contract at that point of time. If in the last three epochs, any “authorized-sealer” does not perform at least one sealing activity, the “authorizedsealer” value will slash by updating the state of the smart contract at the checkpoint block number of the next epoch and of course that “authorized-sealer” will not be involved in the next epoch until it will be authorized to become “authorized-sealer” again via community voting dapp. We will introduce more detail about this on Nexty governance section later 4.

