---
tags: [faq]
---
# FAQ
## For Customers
#### What is EzDeFi? How does it work? Where does the cryptocurrency I’m sending go?

EzDeFi is a platform that helps merchants anywhere in the world accept cryptocurrency payments in a fully decentralized way.

**How it works**

-   When you want to pay a merchant, we will display instructions on how to send funds directly to this merchant, and monitor the blockchain for your transaction.

-   After a valid payment is detected, we will notify the merchant so they can take any necessary actions on their end.

All payments facilitated by ezDeFi are fully decentralized and peer-to-peer. This means that the cryptocurrency goes directly from your wallet to a wallet that is only accessible by the merchant. At no point in this flow does anyone except the merchant, including ezDeFi, have access to these funds.

How do I go about getting a refund? Can ezDeFi help me with this?

If you would like a refund, please contact the merchant directly.

All transactions made with cryptocurrency are direct peer-to-peer payments from the customer to the merchant. This means that once a payment is sent, there is no way for ezDeFi to reverse the transaction or reclaim funds on your behalf. As a result we are unable to resolve any payment disputes as the transactions are secured by the blockchain and are irreversible.

#### I haven’t received the item I purchased. What can I do?

Please reach out to the merchant directly regarding any issues with your order or an update on your order status.

All transactions made with cryptocurrency are direct peer-to-peer payments from the customer to the merchant. This means that once a payment is sent, there is no way for ezDeFi to reverse the transaction or reclaim funds on your behalf. As a result we are unable to resolve any payment disputes as the transactions are secured by the blockchain and are irreversible.

If you believe that this merchant may be running a scam, please send an email to support@ezdefi.com  with all relevant details and a member of our security and investigations team will take a look into the account.

#### How can I track my transaction?

For each cryptocurrency, there are many different explorer websites that offer the service to track cryptocurrency payment.

E.g:

Track BTC payment through [btc.com](https://btc.com/)

Track ETH payment through [etherscan.io](https://etherscan.io/)

Track NTY, NewSD, NTF payment through [explorer.nexty.io](https://explorer.nexty.io/)

#### Why does my receipt say that I overpaid or underpaid an order? What should I do?

ezDeFi tracks payment amounts in the cryptocurrency units. An overpayment or underpayment indicates that we have detected an amount greater or lesser than what we expected – the most common reason for this occurring is your wallet using a significantly different exchange rate than ezDeFi.

Please reach out directly to the merchant to resolve this issue – the merchant may ask you to top up the missing amount in the case of an underpayment, refund you the excess amount in the case of an overpayment, or refund you completely and ask you to complete the checkout again. We recommend that you include your receipt code to help the merchant track down your charge.

## For Merchants

#### How can I signup for an account?

To sign up for an account, go to https://ezdefi.com/signup.

You only need an email address and we don’t require any documentation
There is also no upfront waiting period – simply sign up, confirm your email address, and you’re all set.

#### How much does it cost to use ezDeFi Gateway?

We do not charge any fees in order to use ezdefi.com. However, in order to withdraw any funds you have received, you will need to pay a network fee to cryptocurrency miners. If you would like to convert your cryptocurrency into fiat, an exchange may charge fees.

#### How can I convert cryptocurrency to fiat currency e.g. USD, EUR,  JPY, etc?

Merchants could access to popular or local OTC exchange to convert between their cryptocurrency / fiat currency pair.

If you are not sure where to look for such exchanges, please refer to [Coinmarketcap](https://coinmarketcap.com/rankings/exchanges/liquidity/) for more information.

#### How can I withdraw the funds that I have collected?

To withdraw your funds, log into your ezDeFi account and click on a “Withdraw” button next to the relevant cryptocurrency in the “Balances” section. A modal will pop up with the ability to specify how much you would like to withdraw, and where you would like these funds to go.

#### How can I reset my password?

If you’ve forgotten your password, please visit our reset password page and follow the on-screen instructions.

#### How do I refund a customer?

Currently, customer refunds are processed in the same way as withdrawing any cryptocurrency you have received. After logging in, click on a “Withdraw” button next to the relevant currency and enter the customer’s refund address and the refund amount. Please note that all transactions, including refunds, are required to pay a network fee in order to be processed – you may choose to pay this fee on behalf of your customer, or deduct the fee amount from the refund amount.

### Your question is still not answered?

Please contact us at support@ezdefi.com for further assistance.
